FenceSwitch
The fence switch can be used to switch laser fences on or off. 
By default, the first set of fences linked will be on. If the building is fully
manned by Darwinians, the player can click on the building to switch the fences
off. If there is a second set of fences connected to teh switch, this second
set will then switch on (they are off by default).
Linking from teh editor occurs in the following order:
    First set of fences
    Second set of fences

The light on top of the building currently indicates is switching state:
green indicates that teh first set of fences are active, red for the second
If there is only 1 set of fences linked to the switch, and the darwinians
manning the building are killed, the fence will switch off
Additionally, FenceSwitches can use Power surges from pylons. Using the 
Pylon 1 and Pylon 2 values, you can specify the IDs of pylon buildings which
the switch will pass on any power surges it recieves to. If the switch is set 
to its first value, the surges will be passed to Pylon 1, and if the switch is
set to its second value, Pylon 2 will be used. Power Surges can be set to the
switch by linking a PylonEnd building to it (that pylon must be reciving power 
from some other source)


DynamicBuilding - DynamicHub/DynamicNode
Dynamic Buildings work under the same idea as levels such as Mine and Generator
Several Node Buildings are linked to a Hub building, and when all of the nodes
become online, the Hub becomes online. 
Dynamic Buildings have numerous options available to them:

Hubs:
Hub buildings can accept any shape file and any number of links from 
DynamicNode buildings. The building will become online once all of the 
connected Nodes are activated. For the purposes of mission objectives, the Hubs
must be set to Global in order for the objective to work properly
Hubs may also be controlled by a Control Tower. If there is a Control Tower
connected to the Hub, this control tower must also be reprogrammed before
the Hub will switch online. 
Note: In order for Hubs to work properly while they have a control tower 
connected, their default team must be set to -1 (grey)
Additionally, Hubs may operate in Score Mode. When in score mode, each active
Node connected to the hub will give the hub a number of points per second
(which is specified in the node object itself). The hub is given a number
of required points, and the mission will not complete until this point limit is
reached (this will be displayed as a percentage in the objective screen). When 
the hub is in Score mode, you may also specify a minimum number of active 
nodes which must also be met before the mission completes, in order to stop
players activating a single node and simply waiting for the points to go up.

Nodes
Nodes buildings can also accept any shape file. If this shape file contains
Port markers (areas that Darwinians can enter), then this becomes the method
by which the building is activated - without any of these markers, the building
must be controlled by a control tower. 
If a Node is Darwinian controlled, Control Towers will have no effect. Under 
these circumstances, the building will become active once all the bays are
manned by friendly (green) Darwinians. If the green Darwinians lose control of
the Node at any point, the building will become inactive. This will deactivate
the Hub the Node is connected to if appropriate.
If the Node has no Darwinian ports, a Control Tower must be linked to the Node
in order to activate it. Once this control tower is activated, there is no way 
to deactivate that node unlike with Darwinian controlled Nodes.
Hub buildings may accept both types of Node in order to function - one or more
of the nodes may be Darwinian-controller, and one or more maybe have control
towers at the same time - they will all need to be activated to activate the
hub
Addtionally, if the Hub is running in Score Mode, the Node may be given a 
number of Points Per Second - the number of points this node will give to the
hub each second that it is active. If this Node is controlled by Darwinians, 
the Node will give points if it is controlled by green darwinians, and remove
points if controlled by red.